plan/02-mvp.md, before:

### MVP Scope and Acceptance Criteria

The first executable milestone focuses on ingesting a small set of PDFs/Markdown, embedding chunks, storing them in LanceDB, and providing a basic retrieval API. Generation is included with a minimal prompt. Evaluation is manual smoke-testing.

#### Scope (MVP)
- Sources: PDF and Markdown only
- Parsing: `pdf-parse` or `pdf-extract-ts` for PDF, `remark` for Markdown
- Chunking: paragraph splitter with small overlap; token fallback
- Embeddings: OpenAI `text-embedding-3-small`
- Storage: LanceDB table `chunks`
- Retrieval: vector search (cosine) k=20; simple context assembly
- Generation: single Mastra Agent with system + context + user prompt, answer ≤ 300 tokens with citations (chunk ids)

#### Acceptance Criteria
- `ingest-workflow` runs on a folder of documents and creates LanceDB records
- `retrieve(query, filters?)` returns ordered chunks with scores
- `/ask` (CLI or simple script) returns grounded answer with citations
- Docs: how to run, env vars, and sample

#### Template Compliance
- Commands: `npx create-mastra@latest --template template-name`, `cp .env.example .env`, `npm install`, `npm run dev`
- Structure: code under `src/mastra/` (agents/tools/workflows/index.ts)
- TS: strict config from guidelines; ESM; Node 18+

#### Functions Required (MVP)
- Ingestion: `detectMime`, `parseDocument`, `cleanText`, `splitIntoChunks`, `extractMetadataHybrid`
- Embedding/Storage: `embedChunks`, `getOrCreateTable`, `upsertEmbeddings`
- Retrieval/Answer: `retrieve`, `assembleContext`, `generateAnswer`

#### Example Happy Path (Good Test)
1) Place 5 PDFs + 5 MD in `./data`
2) Run ingest workflow → 120 chunks upserted
3) Call `/ask "What is the refund policy?"` → concise answer with citations (§chunk-0012, §chunk-0015)

#### Example Failure Path (Bad Test)
- Query: "Tell me anything about the universe" on a corpus about company policy
- Expectation: Answer acknowledges lack of relevant context and avoids hallucination; returns safe fallback and no fabricated citations

---

### User Stories
- As an operator, I can ingest a folder of PDFs/MD and see how many chunks were stored
- As a user, I can ask a question and receive a concise, grounded answer with citations
- As a maintainer, I can inspect LanceDB records for text/metadata correctness

### Definition of Ready
- `.env` configured with `OPENAI_API_KEY` and `LANCEDB_PATH`
- Sample documents placed under `./data`
- Scripts available: `ingest`, `ask`, `eval` (stubs acceptable for MVP)

### Error Matrix & Fallbacks (MVP)
- Missing env var → fail fast with actionable message listing required keys
- Parsing error → skip file and continue; summarize at end
- Empty results → return polite fallback and suggest filters/keywords
- Rate limit (429) → automatic retry with backoff; abort after max attempts

### Smoke Test Scripts (illustrative)

```sh
# Ingest sample corpus
npm run ingest -- --path ./data --strategy paragraph --overlap 0.1

# Ask a question
npm run ask -- --query "What is the refund policy?" --filter section=FAQ

# Inspect DB (manual)
# Open a small utility script or REPL to query LanceDB and verify rows
```

### Rollback & Cleanup
- To re-run clean: clear LanceDB path folder and re-ingest
- Use idempotent upsert by `id` to avoid duplicates when re-ingesting

### MVP KPIs (Sign-off)
- Ingestion success rate ≥ 95% for supported MIME types
- Top-20 Recall on a tiny handcrafted eval set ≥ 0.7
- Answer faithfulness (manual) ≥ 0.9; zero hallucinated citations in 10 questions

---

### MVP Constraints (Intentionally Simple)
- Single-tenant, single-source or homogeneous corpus
- No ACL; no LLM routing; no multiplex; one LanceDB table `chunks`
- Only paragraph chunking; no reranker; minimal filters

### Forward-Compatibility Hooks (without implementing yet)
- Config shape includes `tenantId` and `sourceId` for future
- Retrieval API accepts an optional `tenantId` and `sources` list (ignored in MVP)
- Table naming helper prepared for denormalized layout later

### MVP Negative Tests (to assert non-goals)
- Attempt to query as a different tenant id: system rejects because multi-tenancy not enabled in MVP
- Provide multiple sources: system warns and proceeds with default single table only

#### Manual Test Plan
- Seed 5–10 small documents
- Ask 10 queries; verify answers cite correct chunks
- Spot-check LanceDB rows: metadata correctness, vector present

#### Risks & Mitigations
- API rate limits → batch size & backoff
- Token overflows → conservative token budgeting in context assembly
- Parser failures → MIME routing + fallback to plain text

Commit message:

Enhance architecture documentation with ASCII maps for MVP and final codebase layouts, detailing directory structure and component organization. Update MVP plan to include modular embedding options and environment variable configurations. Introduce embedding provider interfaces and update LanceDB schema to accommodate new fields for embedding models. Expand Mastra template mapping with new embedding adapters and model registry.

plan/02-mvp.md, after:

### MVP Scope and Acceptance Criteria

The first executable milestone focuses on ingesting a small set of PDFs/Markdown, embedding chunks, storing them in LanceDB, and providing a basic retrieval API. Generation is included with a minimal prompt. Evaluation is manual smoke-testing.

#### Scope (MVP)
- Sources: PDF and Markdown only
- Parsing: `pdf-parse` or `pdf-extract-ts` for PDF, `remark` for Markdown
- Chunking: paragraph splitter with small overlap; token fallback
- Embeddings: modular via adapter — default Ollama `nomic-embed-text` (768-dim) or OpenAI `text-embedding-3-small` (1536-dim); choose via env
- Storage: LanceDB table `chunks`
- Retrieval: vector search (cosine) k=20; simple context assembly
- Generation: single Mastra Agent with system + context + user prompt, answer ≤ 300 tokens with citations (chunk ids); model selected via `getModel()` (alias or explicit)

#### Acceptance Criteria
- `ingest-workflow` runs on a folder of documents and creates LanceDB records
- `retrieve(query, filters?)` returns ordered chunks with scores
- `/ask` (CLI or simple script) returns grounded answer with citations
- Docs: how to run, env vars, and sample

#### Template Compliance
- Commands: `npx create-mastra@latest --template template-name`, `cp .env.example .env`, `npm install`, `npm run dev`
- Structure: code under `src/mastra/` (agents/tools/workflows/index.ts)
- TS: strict config from guidelines; ESM; Node 18+

#### Functions Required (MVP)
- Ingestion: `detectMime`, `parseDocument`, `cleanText`, `splitIntoChunks`, `extractMetadataHybrid`
- Embedding/Storage: `embedChunks`, `getOrCreateTable`, `upsertEmbeddings`
- Retrieval/Answer: `retrieve`, `assembleContext`, `generateAnswer`

#### Example Happy Path (Good Test)
1) Place 5 PDFs + 5 MD in `./data`
2) Run ingest workflow → 120 chunks upserted
3) Call `/ask "What is the refund policy?"` → concise answer with citations (§chunk-0012, §chunk-0015)

#### Example Failure Path (Bad Test)
- Query: "Tell me anything about the universe" on a corpus about company policy
- Expectation: Answer acknowledges lack of relevant context and avoids hallucination; returns safe fallback and no fabricated citations

---

### User Stories
- As an operator, I can ingest a folder of PDFs/MD and see how many chunks were stored
- As a user, I can ask a question and receive a concise, grounded answer with citations
- As a maintainer, I can inspect LanceDB records for text/metadata correctness

### Definition of Ready
- `.env` configured with `LANCEDB_PATH` and either:
  - `EMBEDDING_PROVIDER=ollama` with `OLLAMA_BASE_URL` (and model pulled), or
  - `EMBEDDING_PROVIDER=openai` with `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- Optional LLM: `LLM_ALIAS_DEFAULT` or `LLM_DEFAULT_MODEL` for agent selection
- Sample documents placed under `./data`
- Scripts available: `ingest`, `ask`, `eval` (stubs acceptable for MVP)

### Error Matrix & Fallbacks (MVP)
- Missing env var → fail fast with actionable message listing required keys
- Parsing error → skip file and continue; summarize at end
- Empty results → return polite fallback and suggest filters/keywords
- Rate limit (429) → automatic retry with backoff; abort after max attempts

### Smoke Test Scripts (illustrative)

```sh
# Ingest sample corpus
npm run ingest -- --path ./data --strategy paragraph --overlap 0.1

# Ask a question
npm run ask -- --query "What is the refund policy?" --filter section=FAQ

# Inspect DB (manual)
# Open a small utility script or REPL to query LanceDB and verify rows
```

### Rollback & Cleanup
- To re-run clean: clear LanceDB path folder and re-ingest
- Use idempotent upsert by `id` to avoid duplicates when re-ingesting

### MVP KPIs (Sign-off)
- Ingestion success rate ≥ 95% for supported MIME types
- Top-20 Recall on a tiny handcrafted eval set ≥ 0.7
- Answer faithfulness (manual) ≥ 0.9; zero hallucinated citations in 10 questions

---

### MVP Constraints (Intentionally Simple)
- Single-tenant, single-source or homogeneous corpus
- No ACL; no LLM routing; no multiplex; one LanceDB table `chunks`
- Only paragraph chunking; no reranker; minimal filters

### Forward-Compatibility Hooks (without implementing yet)
- Config shape includes `tenantId` and `sourceId` for future
- Retrieval API accepts an optional `tenantId` and `sources` list (ignored in MVP)
- Table naming helper prepared for denormalized layout later

### MVP Negative Tests (to assert non-goals)
- Attempt to query as a different tenant id: system rejects because multi-tenancy not enabled in MVP
- Provide multiple sources: system warns and proceeds with default single table only

#### Manual Test Plan
- Seed 5–10 small documents
- Ask 10 queries; verify answers cite correct chunks
- Spot-check LanceDB rows: metadata correctness, vector present

#### Risks & Mitigations
- API rate limits → batch size & backoff
- Token overflows → conservative token budgeting in context assembly
- Parser failures → MIME routing + fallback to plain text
